% EDURange Student Manual
%
% July 2019

# Introduction

EDURange is an NSF-funded project that is both a collection of
interactive, collaborative cybersecurity exercises and a framework for
creating these exercises. This suite of exercises is intended to help
supplement classroom lectures, labs, and other activities.

We believe EDURange has a potential to significantly advance the
integration of cybersecurity into the undergraduate computer science
curriculum. By providing interactive, competitive exercises, it will
enhance the quality of instructional material, and increase active
learning for students. The ease of use for instructors will encourage
them to integrate cybersecurity into the current core curriculum. These
exercises will also provide rapid feedback to students and faculty,
which will aid in assessment of student learning.

A key question we ask ourselves in our design process is: *What kind of
analysis skill do we expect the students to acquire from running (and
re-running) this scenario*?

Our central and very intense focus is on creating exercises that support
and nurture the development of analysis skills rather than memorized
scripts, recipes, or standard command line and GUI settings for a
particular tool. Though some exercises revolve around using a specific
tool, the main learning goal is the development of the analytical skills
and understanding of the complex system which that tool acts upon.

By keeping this focus, EDURange helps students buy into the process of
sharpening their information security analysis skills and makes them a
partner in evaluating and understanding the limits of those skills.

Our cybersecurity exercises cover the topics of Network Analysis and
Reconnaissance, Malware Detection and Analyzation, Network Traffic
Analysis and Defense, Social Engineering, and Web Security. Though our
exercises can be done in any order, some can be good building blocks
that work towards the more advanced ones. Most of the exercises require
a minimal level of understanding of some standard Linux tools. We have
provided some basic tutorials for Linux use at the end of this document.
