## Total Recon

Total Recon is a progressive, story-based game designed to teach how
network protocols such as TCP, UDP, and ICMP can be used to reveal
information about a network. Total Recon focuses on reconnaissance to
determine hosts in an unknown network. You will explore tradeoffs
between speed and stealth when using tools such as nmap.

### Background

Whether you’re doing a large-scale security audit, inventorying a
network, or analyzing network response times, nmap is a powerful tool to
help you complete your task. In order to understand this exercise, you
should be familiar with the 3-way handshake for TCP. A basic
understanding of ICMP and UDP will also be helpful. This exercise is not
designed to teach you all of the details of those protocols, but rather
to show you how they can be used for network exploring. You will learn
how to discover hosts on a network, determine which ports on those hosts
are open, and what applications are running on them.

In practice, each message that is sent over the Internet uses multiple
protocols, which are divided into five layers: physical layer, link
layer, network layer, transport layer and application layer. For
example, the physical layer handles what is encoded as a 0 or 1. The
link layer handles communication on local area networks (LANs). The
network layer handles routing on wide area networks (WANs), e.g. IP. The
transport layer handles ports and processes, e.g. TCP, UDP, ICMP. The
application layer handles applications communicating with each other,
e.g. http, ftp, by nesting packets inside of packets. In general, these
packets correspond to layers of functionality: TCP is
connection-oriented and is responsible for a number of things including
reliably conveying messages between the application layers on two hosts.
The three-way handshake establishes this pairing with the following
sequence: SYN, SYN-ACK, and ACK You can get a summary of the important
protocols and their layers in: Chapter 4 of Hacking: The Art of
Exploitation (Erickson)\[1\] or Chapter 2 of Counter Hack Reloaded
\[2\]. Network Security by Kaufman, Perlman, Speciner \[3\]

### Learning Objectives

* Understand how the networking protocols (TCP, UDP, ICMP) can be exploited for recon
* Know how to use nmap to find hosts and open ports on a network
* Recognize the standard common ports (e.g. SSH, FTP, HTTP, SMTP, IMAP)
* Understand the TCP flags and how they can be used for different types of scans
* Understand CIDR network configuration and how to subdivide a network IP range

### Instructions

Connect to the VM via your instructor’s directions, or as displayed on
your EDURange account. Instructions will be displayed upon logging in
and at each new checkpoint.

### Lab Assignments and Question

Questions can be found upon logging into your EDURange account.

### Discussion Questions

1. What is the 3-way handshake?
2. What does 10.1.1.0/17 mean? how many IP addresses does that include?
3. What does the SYN flag do? What does the FIN flag do?
4. What are the options for nmap and what are their differences in terms
of time, stealth and protocols?
5. Which methods did you use to speed up your scans? What else could you
have done?
